IoCs can be added to blocklists (#3024)
elastic/security-docs: docs/cases/indicators-of-compromise.asciidoc

To remove an indicator attached to a case, click *More actions* (*...​*) -> *Delete attachment* in the case comment. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/remove-indicator.png[Removing an indicator from a case]

[discrete]
[[add-indicator-to-blocklist]]
== Add indicators to the blocklist

> Add indicators to the <<blocklist,blocklist>> to prevent selected applications from running on your hosts. You can add indicators that have the `file` indicator type and hash values for the MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 fields.

Reviewer: How exactly do indicators translate to blocklist entries? How does an indicator specify "selected applications"? Does this mean that any program/file that has a hash in an indicator that you've added to the blocklist won't run? 

(More of a tangent, but I also wonder how users would decide to add a particular indicator to the blocklist, rather than a whole bunch/all of them.)

Author: Ok, sorry for taking a while respond to this :persevere: 

My very, very, _very_ high-level understanding (and @PhilippeOberti please correct me if I'm wrong about any of this) is that `file` type indicators with certain MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 hash values can be indicative of corrupted or malicious files that you don't want executed or downloaded in your environment. In [our instructions](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/master/blocklist.html) for setting up a blocklist, we allude to this in Step 4b but it's not super explicit. In these instructions and the blocklist ones, we're likely assuming the that user has some knowledge of MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 hash values and knows which are IoCs, but adding some light background could help users who are less informed on the subject (like myself 😅).

Reviewer 2: I fee like maybe the `Add indicators to the blocklist` could be a bit misleading here. We're not really adding indicators, we're creating a blocklist entry using a field from an IoC.
As you can see in the image below, the blocklist entry (created from an IoC) will look at the `file.hash` property with the value retrieved from the IoC at the time of creation.
![Screenshot 2023-03-28 at 4 23 51 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17276605/228370342-0c1252d5-537b-42e1-a569-6acaf606120d.png)

Does this help or does it bring more confusion?

Author: @PhilippeOberti I think I get what you're saying. With this feature, users are expanding their blocklist to include certain information that they gathered from analyzing IoCs, not the full IoC itself. Is that correct? Also, are you recommending that I alter the section title and the phrasing? For example:

Use data from IoCs to expand the blocklist

Add indicator values to the [blocklist](https://security-docs_3024.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/blocklist.html) to prevent selected applications from running on your hosts. You can use values from `file` type indicators that have MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 hash values.

You can add indicator values to the blocklist from the Indicators table or the Indicator details flyout. From the Indicators table, select More actions (…​​) → Add blocklist entry. Alternatively, open an indicator’s details, then select Take action → Add blocklist entry.

Reviewer 2: yes and yes :)

> You can add an indicator to the blocklist from the Indicators table or the Indicator details flyout. From the Indicators table, click the *More actions menu* (*...​*), then select *Add blocklist entry*.  Alternatively, open an indicator's details, then select *Take action -> Add blocklist entry*. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can add an indicator to the blocklist from the Indicators table or the Indicator details flyout. From the Indicators table, select *More actions* (*...​*) -> *Add blocklist entry*.  Alternatively, open an indicator's details, then select *Take action -> Add blocklist entry*. 
```

> You can add an indicator to the blocklist from the Indicators table or the Indicator details flyout. From the Indicators table, click the *More actions menu* (*...​*) menu, then select *Add blocklist entry*.  Alternatively, open an indicator's details, then select *Take action -> Add blocklist entry*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add an indicator to the blocklist from the Indicators table or the Indicator details flyout. From the Indicators table, click the *More actions menu* (*...​*), then select *Add blocklist entry*.  Alternatively, open an indicator's details, then select *Take action -> Add blocklist entry*. 
```

> NOTE: Refer to <<blocklist,blocklist>> for more information about blocklist entries. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: Refer to <<blocklist,Blocklist>> for more information about blocklist entries. 
```

> NOTE: Refer to <<blocklist,blocklist>> for more information about creating and managing blocklist entries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Refer to <<blocklist,blocklist>> for more information about blocklist entries. 
```
Nit, but that page's scope seems a bit bigger than just creating and managing

To remove an indicator attached to a case, click *More actions* (*...​*) -> *Delete attachment* in the case comment. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/remove-indicator.png[Removing an indicator from a case]

[discrete]
[[add-indicator-to-blocklists]]
== Add indicators to blocklists

> Add indicators to blocklists to prevent selected applications from running on your hosts. You can add indicators of the `file` indicator type and that have hash values for the MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 fields.

Author: Thanks for these suggestions and for adding the ref to the blocklist page. I had added it a few commits back but it kept throwing an error in the doc build so I removed it and forgot to add it back.

> Add indicators to blocklists to prevent selected applications from running on your hosts. When creating a blocklist, you can add indicators that have hash values for the MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 fields and are of the `file` indicator type.

Author: ```suggestion
Add indicators to blocklists to prevent selected applications from running on your hosts. You can add indicators of the `file` indicator type and that have hash values for the MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 fields.
```

.Requirements
[sidebar]
--
* In addition to configuring specific entries on the **Blocklist** page, you must also ensure that the blocklist is enabled on the {elastic-defend} integration policy in the <<malware-protection, Malware protection settings>>. This setting is enabled by default.

> * You must have the `superuser` {ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in user role] to access this feature.

Reviewer 3: This is actually changing in 8.7 due to [new RBAC for endpoint management](https://github.com/elastic/security-team/issues/5446). I haven't documented the RBAC features yet, but this probably works for now:

```suggestion
* You must have the `Blocklist` <<endpoint-management-req,feature privilege>> to access this feature.
```

We'll try to use a consistent format for privilege prereq statements like this, so if that changes once I document RBAC, I can update this PR as needed, or update the file itself if you've already merged this by that point.

Author: Good reminder, thanks. Feel free to update this line if I merge the PR before you get chance to doc the RBAC features.

--

To add an indicator to a blocklist:

> . From the Indicators table, click the *More actions menu* (*...​*) menu, then select *Add blocklist entry*. Alternatively, open an indicator's details, then select *Take action > Add blocklist entry*. The *Add blocklist* flyout opens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. From the Indicators table, click the *More actions menu* (*...​*) menu, then select *Add blocklist entry*. Alternatively, open an indicator's details, then select *Take action -> Add blocklist entry*. The *Add blocklist* flyout opens.
```

. Fill in these fields in the **Details** section:
.. `Name`: Enter a name to identify the indictor in the blocklist.
.. `Description`: Enter a description to provide more information on the blocklist entry (optional).

> . In the **Conditions** section, verify indicator details are correct.

Reviewer 3: "That" is sometimes an optional connector word; in this case I think helps avoid a more clipped tone.
```suggestion
. In the **Conditions** section, verify that indicator details are correct.
```

Author: I have no strong feelings one way or another but good point :)

> . In the **Conditions** section, verify that information about the indicator is correct.

Author: ```suggestion
. In the **Conditions** section, verify application details are correct.
```

> . In the **Conditions** section, verify that the information about the indicator is correct.

Reviewer 2: @nastasha-solomon there must be some logic happening here, but when I look at the preview there is a lot more content under this `Conditions` section.
The point `#d` of that content mentions this
![Screenshot 2023-02-28 at 4 23 30 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17276605/221995342-ed764109-b66b-4dda-bfb8-f42c19839730.png)
but in our scenario, the hash should be already populated in the input. I guess users can go and modify it if they want, but they shouldn't have too...

Author: You might be looking at an old version of the doc build. Let me rebuild the preview - give the PR about 5 mins to complete.

Reviewer 2: I see that the build is finished, but I'm not sure how to find the new link. The one listed above in the description of in the github-actions comment is identical to before

Author: I'm seeing the same on my end, even after clearing my browser session cache. I'm rebuilding the HTML preview one more time to see if that fixes this.

To remove an indicator attached to a case, click *More actions* (*...​*) -> *Delete attachment* in the case comment. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/remove-indicator.png[Removing an indicator from a case]

[discrete]
[[add-indicator-to-blocklist]]

> == Use data from indicators to expand the blocklist

Author: ```suggestion
== Add indicator details to the blocklist
```

Add indicator values to the <<blocklist,blocklist>> to prevent selected applications from running on your hosts. You can use MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 hash values from `file` type indicators. 

> You can add indicator values to the blocklist from the Indicators table or the Indicator details flyout. From the Indicators table, select *More actions* (*...​*) -> *Add blocklist entry*.  Alternatively, open an indicator's details, then select *Take action -> Add blocklist entry*. 

Reviewer 4: `More actions` and `Take action` are technically menus according to UX, so we'd need to phrase them like `Select the <> menu, then <>`.  

Also, confirming we've capped `Indicator details flyout`- I know we lowercase `alert details flyout` so just checking.
